---
Title: "GEO 100: People, Places, and Environments"
Type: "Undergraduate Course"
Link: /teaching/GEO100
Venue: "Southern Connecticut State Univerisity, Department of the Environment, Geography and Marine Studies"
Date: 09-17-23
Location: "New Haven, CT"
---

Catalog Description
======
Study of the world’s natural habitats and cultural landscapes and the interrelationships that may develop among them.

Course Structure
======
16-Weeks - 3 Credits

Learning Objectives
======
-	Identify the four environmental components (the hydrosphere, atmosphere, lithosphere, and biosphere) as well as processes that transform them and link them.
-	Identify the basic relationships that exist between humans and the natural environments they occupy.
-	Explain the importance of movement to Geography.
-	Recognize and appreciate the increasing importance of global interdependence.
-	Distinguish between regions, both physically and culturally.
-	Make geographic comparisons among places and people and appreciate the beauty of earth’s diversity.
-	Discuss geographic processes, concepts, theories, and terminology and realize the importance and utility of a geographic perspective.
-	Interpret maps effectively, including locating map features and interpreting thematic maps.


LEP Tier 2 - Time and Place (Southern Connecticut State University)
======
This course fulfills the Tier 2, Time and Place category of our general education requirements, The Liberal Education Program. The purpose of the Time and Place category is to appreciate the rich variation in human perspectives on human experience and on nature. Exposure to such perspectives fosters a more cosmopolitan view of the world and provides important context for the students’ understanding of themselves and their own place and time. 
The main objectives of this category are:
1.	Focus – Examining a specific time and/or place with an emphasis on continuity and change. 
2.	Perspective – Encountering unique viewpoints associated with that time or place.
3.	Significance – Understanding the relevance of such perspectives to students’ lives today.
In addition to covering these objectives, this course will also reemphasize at least three Tier 1 Competencies, Critical Thinking, Written Communication, and Creative Thinking. 
