---
title: "GEOG 1010 - Physical Geography"
type: "Undergraduate"
permalink: /teaching/GEOG1010
venue: "University of Tennesee at Chattanooga, Department of Social, Cultural and Justice Studies"
date: 2024-09-01
location: "Chattanooga, TN (Virtual)"
---

The physical environment with emphasis on processes that influence the distribution and pattern of landforms, water, climate, vegetation, and soil. 

Course Structure
======
- 16 Weeks, 3 Credits

Learning Objectives
======
**Knowledge:** 
1. Students will be able to explain how the Earth works as an energy/matter system with emphasis on the inputs of solar and internal Earth energy.
2. Students will compile and integrate information about the atmosphere, hydrosphere, biosphere, cryosphere, and lithosphere of the Earth.
3. Students will be able to explain spatial distributions of environments from an energy/matter physical geography perspective.
4. Students will be introduced to maps and basic map reading skills; concepts such as projections, latitude, and longitude, etc. will be covered.
5. Students will be introduced to the importance of Geographic Information Systems (GIS) as they pertain to Physical Geography
   
**Skills:** 1
1. Students will apply skills (through homework, exams, in-class activities) learned in class related to the measurement of Earth’s physical systems, for example map reading, soil analysis via photographs, data collection and analysis of atmospheric or hydrologic process and conditions.
2. Students will analyze patterns and processes of the landscape by utilizing (including but not limited to): various websites, topographic maps, remotely sensed imagery, Google Earth, and photographs.

General Education - Natural Science non-laboratory course (General Education course).
======
The purpose of this category is to allow students to participate in the systematic ways in which human beings analyze the physical universe, to appreciate the achievements of the human mind in comprehending the universe, and to understand the significant role of the natural sciences in human development.

**Category Outcomes:**

Explain intellectual foundations, conceptual approaches, and methodologies of the natural sciences.
Understand and explain scientific terminology.
Discuss historical, social and political issues related to scientific data and advances.
Construct graphic and analytical models from a description of a specific natural phenomenon.
Formulate a hypothesis based on empirical data.
Apply the scientific method to solve problems.
Design experiments to test hypotheses.
Express conclusions and implications from scientific experiments using a variety of methods.
