---
title: "GEOG 1030 - World Geography"
type: "Undergraduate"
permalink: /teaching/GEOG1030
venue: "University of Tennesee at Chattanooga, Department of Social, Cultural and Justice Studies"
date: 2025-01-28
location: "Chattanooga, TN (Virtual)"
---

Description and analysis of selected world regions, their internal characteristics and problems, and the nature of their interrelationships in a global context. Every semester. This semester we will cover a broad overview of the world in the course textbook. Additionally, we will spend more time learning about: Middle East and North Africa; Sub-Saharan Africa; and East Asia.

Course Structure
======
- 16 Weeks, 3 Credits

General Education - Non-Western.
======
Upon completion of the required credit hours for a Non-Western Culture category course, students will be able to:

- Identify and analyze knowledge, artifacts, or practices of at least one non-Western culture.
- Recognize and articulate the complexities of human differences with the culture or cultures under examination.
- Draw comparisons between the culture or cultures under examination and Western traditions or practices.
- Specifically related to this course, upon completion students will be able to:
- Identify the various regions of the world and recognize their underlying uniqueness and complexities.
- Identify the relationships between physical features and human features in world regions.
- Demonstrate that they have gained basic cartographic literacy regarding the main geographical features of the world.
- Articulate some of the contemporary global geographical issues.
